+++
title = 'avoid generative ai like the plague.'
date = 2025-08-22T00:48:25-04:00
draft = true
+++

#### This is a continuation of my [previous post](/video-ai-generation), which you may check out at your own pleasure. This is more of an informal essay-style post so the formatting might be off. Sorry.

&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; To get the most common accusation out of the way, I am not a staunch ascetic concerning the use of Generative AI. I don't have any disdain for the users of AI. I myself have sparingly used tools like ChatGPT in the past. However, for the reasons that I will provide, I have made the choice to abstain from any use of the technology in all of its forms, and I strongly believe that a reasonable mind would agree with me. In other words, please hear me out.

&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; I define Generative AI as any program that has the express purpose of producing media. This includes but is not limited to mediums such as writing, pictures and videos. Just understand that when referring to AI, the scope does not extend to every program which employs Computer Learning methods. From now on I will substitute generative AI as 'AI' for laziness purposes.

&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  To start, **AI is completely useless to society.**

&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; AI is a technology devoid of any purpose. There is ***no*** systemic issue that demanded an almost instant content-media generation to function. Although it could be construed as useful on an individual level (*like a high school student writing a last-minute 1000 word essay, for example*), the value of AI really falls apart if one interrogates it in relation to societal utility. These days AI is often shilled as 'the future' by tech companies who have turned the term into a sort a buzz word, but the jury is still out on what societal problems AI can actually solve. The most common responses a stereotypical silicon tech-bro gives to this question in my experience are, "It streamlines the tasks that no one wants to do" or alternatively, "it would make content creation more accessible for everyone".

&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; The desire to automate the menialities of life reasonably precipitates from the alienation that comes with a lot of modern labour such as tireless online communication and writing assignments that students don't care one bit about. However, it is entirely unconvincing that we should employ AI to solve these issues. (*especially when it ruins so much other stuff*) Society cannot make up for it's faults by only creating technology that doesn't solve any underlying issue. Put simply, making AI to do your bullshit tasks won't solve the bullshit problem.

&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; The second point most often given is trivial. Content creation is already widely accessible. *(*Although I do detest the term 'content' when referring to art*)*. Anyone who can access ChatGPT can also access the internet and it is not a stretch to say they can probably also access basic art supplies. Prompting an AI is not content creation. It's a commission at best and it is pathetic to claim that it even approches tangible artistic value.

&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  One point often missed is that the **people who control the technology do not care for society. (and are stupid)**

&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; The tech oligarchs who entirely control the technology and the internet (*Because let's be honest, neither America nor Canada will do anything to regulate this*) like Sam Altman, Mark Zuckerberg or Elon Musk do not care. They belong to a class of people whose interests are completely contrary with the common worker or citizen (***Including you!***). Although these individuals may have an aura of sophistication, they are not indeed much smarter than the average citizen as their ideas are imcomprehensible. The sense of superiority billionaires have is mostly manufactured, as many tech billionaires like Bill Gates are known to pretend to understand difficult subjects such as physics for image purposes. \
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; You must always remember that the likes of the AI overlords would sacrafice your entire neighbourhood and the environment if it meant they could get one more data supercenter up and running to satisfy their dogged desire for profit. These people are the ones stealing our future and environment. They will do anything in their power to implement their vision for humanity without any care for the workers who actually do the work that keeps the world spinning.

&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; There are also credible concerns AI creating a post-truth world. In fact that is exactly the type of world tech ogligarchs want to create. The benefit for the powerful in a post-truth world is not only the idea that no one can verify what is false, it is also valueable that no one will be able to know what is true. This will have the desired effect of people will not bother thinking for themselves, and rather defer to whatever inherent biases they possess or what they hope to be true. Imagine seeing an AI generated video of a terrorist attack, a pornographic video of an acquintance, or a riot by a supposed group of people and not being able to determine if it is real. If you thought the world was post-consensus already, get ready for it to get a lot worse as this technology improves.

&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Now here is why this matters. When you use ChatGPT or any other AI, **you are providing more training data to improve the AI itself**. Ask yourself: "Why are they letting us use this for free?". After all, Google, Meta and ChatGPT lose millions of dollars every day by allowing users to use AI technology for free. The answer is obvious. This is because they want users to provide free labour to train their models, while also slowly building society's forced reliance on their technology. People and companies will come to rely on such Generative AI. And like always, prices will increase and paywalls will be erected with lame excuses of cost-cutting. Society will be forced to pay in to support privatized AI infrastructure that no one can opt out of using because of their efforts to embed AI into the economy. In fact, the industry has no other choice because there are hundereds of billions invested in such technologies

&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; By using AI, you are actively supporting a gradual enshittenfying of society that will slowly make a world where no one creates or thinks for themselves.

&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; The entire point of all this is not only just encouraging people to avoid AI, it's also to encourage people to think. This is not even a point on anti-intellectualism, but moreso the ownership one has over ones brain. You can understand shit. You don't have to rely on a program or some white dude in a suit to tell you what you feel about the current affairs of the world. The ultra-wealthy want you to not have to confidence to think for yourself so they can use that hopelessness to continue grow their respective empires without any resistance.

I hope any of this made sense. Thank you for reading.