+++
title = "studying with AI = BAD! (+ other thoughts) "
date = 2025-11-04T15:48:58-05:00
draft = true
+++

#### I'm too lazy to write anything long form. Topics are marked by number. 

**1: a short case of why you should not use AI to study**

As someone who can often be found studying at the library, I've noticed an increase of the usage of AI. This was not of great shock to me, and I understand why people would gravitate to such a technology. 

I've experimented with the technology myself, and I 

- Not condusive to actual learning
- Won't improve memory; akin to having someone explain the answer to every question
- Hallucinates; for conceptual questions its best to avoid it.
- Will fuck up your long-term learning if you're not careful (For professionals)
- Other methods are most efficient. (Might elaborate on this further, later.)

**2: drawing**

**3: a thought on college**

University is a lot more uneventful than I first anticipated. I was always a self-conscious person, but that has shifted since my first semester started. I can walk outside with the assurance that no one is paying attention to me. There isn't even an implication that you have to be 'part' of the student body: you could isolate yourself from everyone here and no one would notice. Not the professors, classmates, or a single soul. I guess it's lonely in that way.

Still, everyone goes to class and tries one's best even if its painful, because there's too much to lose from quitting. They'll get their degree for the priviledge of working an above-average, perhaps lonelier, job. All from an institution that never cared about any of that in the first place. 

Really thinking about it, maybe this world is the one that has been made to be lonely.

**4: sombr**

I'm generally apathetic to whatever the new big music artist is. Like a normal person I usually think, 'good for them!' and move on with my day. However, something about this guy genuinely ticked me off and annoyed me. I never really knew why until I listened to his music to give him a fair chance.

The music production is fine. His beats are catchy, perhaps a little forgettable. But the lyrics are so generic that it's hard to believe that it wasn't generated by an LLM to go viral on Tiktok. It's so clear to me that his entire thing is 'aesthetics-first'. viz., There is no universe where he could have become #36 in the world if he wasn't attractive and tall. The internet's tendency to flatten art into an 'aesthetic' is one of my biggest pet peeves and I guess sombr is someone who represents that for me. 

(To be clear, I don't hate the guy I will just be forever annoyed when I'm reminded of him)

It's funny. I was trying his album out and the song, *'we never dated'* stood out to me because I thought the premise could be interesting. As someone who likes to guess how love songs go I thought it would be about a toxic, romance-absent relationship that didn't work for the both of them. As it turns out however, the story was literally about a girl that he never dated. That was the point where I thought: 'yeah, that's enough of him'.

**5: modern businesses**

All businesses and new business ideas nowadays suck. Amazon, Doordash and those with similar business models, are basically a glorified cancerous logistics business that steal from workers. That guy you know runs a drop shipping (price gouging) air pod dupe service, and your asian friend really wants you to use that new AI study tool for some reason.

If you do dropshipping, reselling, or push ChatGPT wrapper services then I don't trust you. Why are you running a price gouging business that is reliant on taking a cut for doing zero labour to make profit. 
